hello it's ruby and today i'm going to
be telling you how i'm staying
productive
and motivated while studying remotely
from home if you didn't know six weeks
ago i moved back home from university
because of coronavirus and i have been
studying entirely online since then i've
actually found it working really really
well
and i am managing to be productive and
stay on top of things and so i wanted to
show you what i'm doing
and what i think is helpful so that if
you are struggling with remote learning
you can take some of these tips and
hopefully
benefit more from distance learning
today's video is also very kindly
sponsored by
logitech okay so first of all lectures
obviously everyone at university has
their lectures online at the moment
and i don't know about you but i
actually much prefer online lectures
i enjoy the fact that you can watch them
on double time
and that it's a lot more flexible so you
can just pause it and go and do some
research if you want to
you can pause it and go back if you
didn't understand something but it's
also easy to procrastinate because
you're obviously not in a lecture hall
where you're held accountable
so the way that i've got around this is
by making my lecture times really formal
like when i sit down to do a lecture
i've got to watch
the whole lecture i can't just watch
part of it and i try and watch the
lectures at the same time every week
and sit down and make it an event
because by giving it that level of
formality
it kind of mirrors the formality of you
going to a real one and i find that i
have less resistance to the lectures and
i'm less likely
to procrastinate okay so next seminars
i'd really recommend preparing for your
seminars more extensively than you
usually would so looking at the seminar
overview which your lecturer should put
up
and preparing some thoughts for each of
the things that you're going to discuss
zoom calls can be so so daunting and i
find that it can be harder to say
something in a zoom call than
in a normal seminar but it's a lot
easier to say something if you've got
something pre-prepared if you've
already thought about it and so i'd
really recommend doing this and on that
topic
turn your camera and your microphone on
having my camera on having my microphone
on means that this seminar is my
only concern i know that i wouldn't be
able to fully concentrate on a seminar
if i didn't do this
it just keeps you accountable having
your video on and it better replicates
what it's like in an actual seminar so
highly recommend this okay so next
number four obviously one of the hardest
things about working from home is that
you're always in one space
like you're always in your bedroom at
your desk
um when you're studying and when you're
not studying you're still in your home
and so
you don't have that level of change that
you would have if you were on campus and
you were able to go between the library
and go
to your lecture and go to your seminar
because changing our environment helps
to keep us stimulated and helps to keep
us
working productively this is something
worth trying to mirror like trying to
change up your study location if you can
so maybe working at your kitchen table
if you're in student accommodation
moving out of your bedroom and going to
work in your shad kitchen
or even working on a sofa or your bed on
your laptop
um just changing up your location a
little bit can really help to
keep your mind stimulated and that
brings me on to the sponsor of today's
video which is logitech
this here is the logitech mx anywhere 3
mouse
and the really cool thing about this
mouse is that it can be used anywhere
you can do work and be productive in
multiple locations so you can work on
the sofa so you can work at your desk
you can work at the kitchen table
you can work much more flexibly and you
can change your location easily without
having to lug around
a mousepad and any other things i have
really loved using this mouse and if
you're working remotely and trying to
switch up your location this just makes
it so easy to move between different
areas
if you are interested to buy this mouse
then there will be a link in the
description box
so number five kind of links in from
that if you are at university if you are
working in the library
you might be working alongside other
people whereas when you're working
remotely it's really easy for you to
work completely by yourself if you can
it can be really great to find someone
you can study alongside so my sister and
i
study together in the afternoons down at
the kitchen table and this just means
that we have company and we can keep
each other accountable and motivated
this could also be with housemates
flatmates it could be a friend on a zoom
call or it could even be your parents
who are
doing work and you could be studying at
the same time i also think it's so
important to have a really nice
productive study space that you can work
in where you've got everything you need
but it's also
really aesthetic and clean and
minimalist so that you don't get
distracted um just a place that you
enjoy being
i would really recommend making the most
of your tutors office hours
your tutors will be happy to speak with
you it's really easy for these concerns
to go unnoted when you're not
seeing tutors in person you can't ask
those questions in person so
just don't shy away from using office
hours you might want to make a group
chat with people
in your seminar group so that if you
have any questions you can easily ask
these
and clear up these concerns to you i'd
also recommend trying to put aside
some time every week where you
definitely don't do work like this is
schedule time where you definitely
will not work this might be one whole
day it might be half a day
um depending on what your schedule and
timetable is looking like but having
that set
time every week i think is important
because if it weren't locked down
you might be taking that time to go and
see friends or um do something outside
of the house but when you're inside the
house it's kind of a temptation to
just keep on being productive and feel
like you have to keep on doing things
when actually it's a different
circumstance to usual so really try and
do that i
take sunday afternoons off completely
from work for example it's really really
useful to video call people
on your course and study alongside them
or talk through ideas with them blakely
and i do one module the same
and we will call each other for like
eight hours every week to talk through
key concepts and ideas and thoughts
on what we've studied that week and it
is so so useful for consolidation
this is the kind of thing that you
naturally would get when you're leaving
seminars and leaving lectures and you're
talking with your peers
so if you can try and emulate that
through actually scheduling zoom calls
then that can be really helpful
i talk about timetables all the time but
um of course it wouldn't be a study tips
video for me if i didn't recommend
making a timetable if you're not feeling
motivated just to keep yourself
accountable
it gives you less choice to
procrastinate so you're more likely to
actually keep to the set task if you've
set those time constraints for yourself
having a solid morning and night routine
is important
just kind of emulating again what it
would be like if you were at school or
university normally
wear something nice to give yourself
motivation dress up in the kind of thing
that you wear to university
just kind of a way of telling yourself
that um what you're doing
is important this day means something
important
i said this earlier in the year but if
you treat your day like it's worth
something it becomes something
and i really do believe that so treat
your day like it is an important day
even if it's just another day at home
and finally i would recommend keeping a
list of break ideas that you can come
back to
i think it's really easy to get
distracted when we're working from home
because there are so many distractions
and things that we can do all of the
time like
i've been working this morning and i was
like oh i really want to sort my
wardrobe out
but i just added that to my break ideas
when you want to take a break from
studying you can go
and look through that break idea thing
and do some of those things
now the really really great thing about
doing this is in my experience you tend
to come up with more productive break
ideas
when you're studying and working hard
than you would if you weren't working if
you came up with those things
at a normal time i think this is because
when you're working these seem
easy in comparison to what you're doing
so sorting my wardrobe
is easy in comparison to me writing an
essay but it might not be easy in
comparison to me
watching a film um this means you can
end up using your break time doing
something more productive
obviously having productive breaks isn't
really important but when you're using
them as study breaks
it is important satan says that it's
easier for us to
get back into our work if we have a
quote unquote productive break where we
do something where we're not
completely switching off we're still
doing something remotely active
and having this list of things which you
have at some point wanted to do and you
were looking forward to doing is really
great to kind of fall back on
and it can help you to keep you
motivated more during the day
anyway thank you so much for watching
this video i hope that you found it
helpful
and that you can apply some of these
tips thank you again to logitech for
sponsoring today's video
and i hope that you have a productive
week
[Music]
awesome